# A development environment using PHP 8.1 Docker and Docker Compose with PHP-FPM, Nginx and running a separate Mariadb container.

The following stack will be created:

- A network named mariadb_database_service_network

Container 1
- A `mariadb` service running Mariadb.

Container 2
- A `php8` service running PHP 8 FPM.

- An `nginx` service running Nginx




## Requirements

- Docker
- Docker Compose


## Running the environment

To build and run the services run the following from command line

```bash
cd mariadb
docker compose up -d

cd ../nginx
docker compose up -d
```

## Mariadb

This service is set up to use port 3306 by default.

Rename or copy .env.example to .env and change the root password, username, and user password. Example


```bash
DB_CONNECTION=mysql
DB_HOST=mariadb
DB_PORT=3306
DB_ROOT_HOST=%
DB_ROOT_PASSWORD=My_Super_Awesome_Password_For-Root_User
DB_DATABASE=database
DB_USERNAME=beetlejuce
DB_PASSWORD=Beetlejuce_Beetlejuce_Beetlejuce
```


## Nginx

This service is set up to use port 80 by default.
In your browser enter your server’s domain name or IP address for the url. If you are on your local computer try localhost.

```bash
localhost
```

You can use the logs command to check the logs generated by your services:

```bash
docker compose logs nginx
```


## Php database editor

By default there is no database editors in the environment.
You can either download an editor such as [Adminer](https://www.adminer.org/) and put the php file in the public directory.
If you added to the public directory you need to enter that filename to access it

```bash
localhost/adminer-4.8.1-mysql.php
```


You can add one to the stack in the docker-compose.yml file just above the networks: section.

```bash
    # phpMyAdmin Service
    phpmyadmin:
        image: phpmyadmin/phpmyadmin:latest
        ports:
            - 8080:80
        environment:
            PMA_HOST: mariadb
        networks:
            - mariadb_database_service_network
```

If you added to the docker-compose.yml file you need to use port 8080 to access it.

```bash
localhost:8080
```

Use mariadb for the server name if needed, for example Adminer uses localhost for the server by default but you need to enter mariadb to connect to the database container.


## Some Docker Commands

You can run the services in background mode with:

```bash
docker compose up -d
```

You can stop the services with:

```bash
docker compose stop
```

You can remove the services with:

```bash
docker compose down
```

To get information about the state of your active services, run:

```bash
docker compose ps
```

You can use the `docker-compose exec` command to execute commands in the service containers.

```bash
docker compose exec php ls -l
```

Shows detailed information about files in the application directory

To pause the environment while keeping the state of all its services, run:

```bash
docker compose pause
```

- You can then resume your services with:

```bash
docker compose unpause
```
